getting-started-macos/index.md, before:

# Getting started with UR-Vault on macOS

## Steps


### 1. Install UR-Vault from AppStore

UR-Vault for macOS can be installed from:
https://apps.apple.com/in/app/ur-vault/id6756403309

#### 1.1 Launch UR-Vault after device authentication

![](images/device_auth_login.png)

#### 1.2 Sign in using Apple ID

![](images/apple_sign_in.png)

### 2. Install browser extension
Click on the link for instructions to install the `UR-Vault` extension on the browser. The extension enables auto-fill of new and rotated passwords.
For installing browser extensions, please refer to: https://balajikadambi.github.io/UR-Vault/browser-support/.
![](images/install_browser_extn.png)

#### 2.1 Configure settings on UR-Vault App for browser integration

Go to `Settings` on `UR-Vault` App.

![](images/app_settings.png)

Change the Port number on Settings App if needed:

![](images/change_port.png)

Open the `Configuration` tab on browser extension. Change the port number to match the port number set on the `UR-Vault` App. Click on `Connection` icon.

![](images/test_connection.png)

Once the connection is successful, save the port number by clicking on `Save` button.

![](images/save_port.png)

Next on the `Autofill` tab, click on `Register with UR-Vault App` button. 

![](images/register_urvault.png)
![](images/registered.png)

### 3. Password generation for a website

Open a website on the browser (e.g. http://localhost:3000/home.html).
Open the extension and copy the website name.

![](images/copy_website_name.png)

Open the `UR-Vault` App. Go to `Manage Passwords`. Select `Generate`. Click on `Paste` icon to paste the website name. 

![](images/paste_website_name.png)

Enter `Account nickname` and `username`. 

![](images/account_details.png)

Enter `Password rules` for the website. You can use the `Chat Assistant` to get password rules for public websites.

![](images/choose_rules.png)

Enter a unique secret name for the password generation. It can be the default secret configured on the `Settings` page.
> Note: Please change the default secret value on Settings page before selection on this page.

![](images/enter_secret_gen.png)

Click on `Generate` to generate the password. The passwords are now copied to clipboard in encrypted format.
![](images/generate_pass.png)

Next, go back to the browser extension Autofill tab.
Select the option `Fill passwords generated on UR-Vault App`. Click on `Paste` icon to load the passwords.

![](images/load_gen_passwords.png)

Now the username and password are available on the webpage for auto-fill into text fields. Please click on the `UR-Vault` icon at the right end of the text field to display list of options for autofill.

![](images/autofill_user.png)
![](images/autofill_pass.png)

Once the password works on the website, store the password on `UR-Vault` App.
> Important: The generated password will not be available on the App if it is not stored.

![](images/store_pass.png)

> Important: The password for a website or service can be viewed by selecting the `View` option. The `Account nickname` and `username` can be updated using the `Update` option.
For subsequent login to the webpage, you can use the option `UR-Vault App` for `Select source for passwords` to load the passwords.
First select `Find` to find a match on the stored websites, and then click on `Load password`.

![](images/find_match.png)
![](images/load_pass.png)

### 4. Rotate password for a website

Go to `Manage Passwords` on `UR-Vault` App and select `Rotate` option. Enter all the details. The website name can be got from the browser extension.

![](images/enter_rotate_acc.png)

Click on `Generate`. The current and new passwords are encrypted and copied to clipboard.

![](images/rotate_gen_pass.png)

Next, go back to the browser extension Autofill tab.
Select the option `Fill passwords generated on UR-Vault App`. Click on `Paste` icon to load the passwords.

![](images/load_change_pass.png)

Select the `Current:` option for the current password.
![](images/enter_old_pass.png)

Select the `New:` option for the new password.
![](images/enter_new_pass.png)

Once the new password works on the website, store the password on `UR-Vault` App.
> Important: The generated password will not be available on the App if it is not stored.
![](images/store_pass.png)


### 5. Migrate passwords from other providers

Go to `Manage Passwords migration` on `UR-Vault` App.

![](images/password_migration.png)

### 5. Manage stored data 

Go to `Manage stored data` on `UR-Vault` App. The data that is not needed can be deleted.

![](images/manage_stored_data.png)


### 6. Backup and restore websites data 

Go to `Backup and restore` on `UR-Vault` App. 

![](images/backuprestore.png)

Commit message:

Update getting-started guide with installation steps
Added installation and usage steps for UR-Vault.

getting-started-macos/index.md, after:

# Getting started with UR-Vault on macOS

[Install UR-Vault](#1-install-ur-vault-from-appstore)
[Install browser extension](#2-install-browser-extension)
[Generate password for a website or service](#3-password-generation-for-a-website)
[Rotate password](#4-rotate-password-for-a-website)
[Migrate passwords from other providers](#5-migrate-passwords-from-other-providers)
[Manage stored data](#5-manage-stored-data)
[Backup and restore data](#6-backup-and-restore-websites-data)


### 1. Install UR-Vault from AppStore

UR-Vault for macOS can be installed from:
https://apps.apple.com/in/app/ur-vault/id6756403309

#### 1.1 Launch UR-Vault after device authentication

![](images/device_auth_login.png)

#### 1.2 Sign in using Apple ID

![](images/apple_sign_in.png)

### 2. Install browser extension
Click on the link for instructions to install the `UR-Vault` extension on the browser. The extension enables auto-fill of new and rotated passwords.
For installing browser extensions, please refer to: https://balajikadambi.github.io/UR-Vault/browser-support/.
![](images/install_browser_extn.png)

#### 2.1 Configure settings on UR-Vault App for browser integration

Go to `Settings` on `UR-Vault` App.

![](images/app_settings.png)

Change the Port number on Settings App if needed:

![](images/change_port.png)

Open the `Configuration` tab on browser extension. Change the port number to match the port number set on the `UR-Vault` App. Click on `Connection` icon.

![](images/test_connection.png)

Once the connection is successful, save the port number by clicking on `Save` button.

![](images/save_port.png)

Next on the `Autofill` tab, click on `Register with UR-Vault App` button. 

![](images/register_urvault.png)
![](images/registered.png)

### 3. Password generation for a website

Open a website on the browser (e.g. http://localhost:3000/home.html).
Open the extension and copy the website name.

![](images/copy_website_name.png)

Open the `UR-Vault` App. Go to `Manage Passwords`. Select `Generate`. Click on `Paste` icon to paste the website name. 

![](images/paste_website_name.png)

Enter `Account nickname` and `username`. 

![](images/account_details.png)

Enter `Password rules` for the website. You can use the `Chat Assistant` to get password rules for public websites.

![](images/choose_rules.png)

Enter a unique secret name for the password generation. It can be the default secret configured on the `Settings` page.
> Note: Please change the default secret value on Settings page before selection on this page.

![](images/enter_secret_gen.png)

Click on `Generate` to generate the password. The passwords are now copied to clipboard in encrypted format.
![](images/generate_pass.png)

Next, go back to the browser extension Autofill tab.
Select the option `Fill passwords generated on UR-Vault App`. Click on `Paste` icon to load the passwords.

![](images/load_gen_passwords.png)

Now the username and password are available on the webpage for auto-fill into text fields. Please click on the `UR-Vault` icon at the right end of the text field to display list of options for autofill.

![](images/autofill_user.png)
![](images/autofill_pass.png)

Once the password works on the website, store the password on `UR-Vault` App.
> Important: The generated password will not be available on the App if it is not stored.

![](images/store_pass.png)

> Important: The password for a website or service can be viewed by selecting the `View` option. The `Account nickname` and `username` can be updated using the `Update` option.
For subsequent login to the webpage, you can use the option `UR-Vault App` for `Select source for passwords` to load the passwords.
First select `Find` to find a match on the stored websites, and then click on `Load password`.

![](images/find_match.png)
![](images/load_pass.png)

### 4. Rotate password for a website

Go to `Manage Passwords` on `UR-Vault` App and select `Rotate` option. Enter all the details. The website name can be got from the browser extension.

![](images/enter_rotate_acc.png)

Click on `Generate`. The current and new passwords are encrypted and copied to clipboard.

![](images/rotate_gen_pass.png)

Next, go back to the browser extension Autofill tab.
Select the option `Fill passwords generated on UR-Vault App`. Click on `Paste` icon to load the passwords.

![](images/load_change_pass.png)

Select the `Current:` option for the current password.
![](images/enter_old_pass.png)

Select the `New:` option for the new password.
![](images/enter_new_pass.png)

Once the new password works on the website, store the password on `UR-Vault` App.
> Important: The generated password will not be available on the App if it is not stored.
![](images/store_pass.png)


### 5. Migrate passwords from other providers

Go to `Manage Passwords migration` on `UR-Vault` App.

![](images/password_migration.png)

### 5. Manage stored data 

Go to `Manage stored data` on `UR-Vault` App. The data that is not needed can be deleted.

![](images/manage_stored_data.png)


### 6. Backup and restore websites data 

Go to `Backup and restore` on `UR-Vault` App. 

![](images/backuprestore.png)
